PTeSpeak
========================

Do you want your iPhone/iPad to speak Georgian? Or any other language ?
PTeSpeak is a wrapper class for popular open source engine [eSpeak](http://espeak.sourceforge.net/).

How to build demo app
---------------------
- Git clone `PTeSpeak` demo app to your local disk.
- Download the latest eSpeak development version at [Downlaod](http://espeak.sourceforge.net/test/espeak-1.46.14.zip).
Extract and copy entire directory `espeak-1.46.14` to your just cloned `PTeSpeak` directory.
- Open `PTeSpeak.xcodeproj` XCode project and run demo app.

Note: You need XCode 4.0 in order to build and run demo app.


How to use
----------

1. Copy PTeSpeak.m and PTeSpeak.h files to your source tree and add it to XCode project.
2. Implement PTeSpeakDelegate protocol.
3. Add `AudioToolbox.framework` to your project.
4. Just #import the PTeSpeak.h header

`#import "PTeSpeak.h"`

Example of how to create PTeSpeak class to synthesize speech:

    PTeSpeak *espeak = [PTeSpeak sharedPTeSpeak];
    
    [espeak setDelegate:self];
    [espeak setupWithVoice:@"ka" volume:100 rate:150 pitch:40];
    [espeak speak:@"ფიცარი"];
    
Your class will have to implement the PTeSpeakDelegate protocol, and to implement the `speakDidStart:`, `speakDidEnd:` and `speakWithError:error:` methods from this protocol:

    - (void)speakDidStart:(PTeSpeak *)espeak
    {
        NSLog(@"Start speaking…");
    }
    
    - (void)speakDidEnd:(PTeSpeak *)espeak
    {
        NSLog(@"Stop speaking…");
    }
    
    - (void)speakWithError:(PTeSpeak *)espeak error:(OSStatus)error
    {
        NSLog(@"Error %d while speaking", error);
    }


Class References
----------------

### PTeSpeak

#### setupWithVoice

`- (NSInteger)setupWithVoice:(NSString*)voiceName volume:(NSInteger)volume rate:(NSInteger)rate pitch:(NSInteger)pitch`

Setup espeak engine.
`voiceName` - Languge ISO2 code (e.g. ka - Georgian, en - English)
`volume` - Voice amplitude (0 to 200)
`rate` - Speed in words per minute (80 to 450)
`pitch` - Pitch adjustment (0 to 99)

#### speak

`- (void)speak:(NSString*)text`

`text` to speak.

#### isSpeak

`- (BOOL)isSpeak`

Check speak status.

#### stop

`- (BOOL)stop`

Stop speaking.

#### pause

`- (BOOL)pause`

Pause speaking.

#### start

`- (BOOL)start`

Start speaking.
